docs/_pages/custom_contribute.md, before:

---
title: Custom Blocks
layout: posts
permalink: /custom_contribute/

collection: posts

classes: narrow

sidebar:
  nav: "docs"
---

It is quite simple to add applications and blocks to VisualCircuit's ever expanding library.
To create a block, simply follow the steps given below:

## Creating the block
Create the block in Visual Circuit and test it in your custom environment

## Save As
![Save As]({{ "assets/images/custom_contribute/save_as.png" | absolute_url }})

## Add as Block
![Add Block]({{ "assets/images/custom_contribute/add block.png" | absolute_url }})

![Sample Block]({{ "assets/images/custom_contribute/sample block.png" | absolute_url }})

## Example of Added Block Display
![Block Added]({{ "assets/images/custom_contribute/block added.png" | absolute_url }})


## Contributing upstream
Create a Pull Request on the VisualCircuit-resources repo. The Pull Request must include: 
- Content of the blocks as a .vc3 file,
- An explantion of its utility 
- A short video of its working 
- Expected input and output

Commit message:

Rename files and add sample request

docs/_pages/custom_contribute.md, after:

---
title: Custom Blocks
layout: posts
permalink: /custom_contribute/

collection: posts

classes: narrow

sidebar:
  nav: "docs"
---

Thanks for taking the time to contribute blocks to Visual Circuit's Library.
To create a block and add it, simply follow the steps given below:

## Creating the block
Create the block in Visual Circuit and test it in your custom environment

## Save As
![Save As]({{ "assets/images/custom_contribute/save_as.png" | absolute_url }})

## Add as Block
![Add Block]({{ "assets/images/custom_contribute/add_block.png" | absolute_url }})

![Sample Block]({{ "assets/images/custom_contribute/sample_block.png" | absolute_url }})

## Example of Added Block Display
![Block Added]({{ "assets/images/custom_contribute/block_added.png" | absolute_url }})


## Contributing upstream
Create a Pull Request on the VisualCircuit-resources repo. The Pull Request must include: 
- Content of the blocks as a .vc3 file,
- An explantion of its utility 
- A short video of its working 
- Expected input and output

![Sample Request]({{ "assets/images/custom_contribute/sample_request.png" | absolute_url }})
