docs/_pages/home.md, before:

---
layout: splash
permalink: /
header:
  overlay_color: "#5e616c"
  overlay_image: /assets/images/bg.jpg
  actions:
    #- label: "<i class='fas fa-download'></i> Install now"
    #  url: "/installation/"
excerpt: 
  Visual programming of robots using hardware blocks composition and Python 
feature_row:
  - image_path: /assets/images/cover/logbook.jpg
    alt: "About"
    title: "About"
    excerpt: "Information about VisualCircuit."
    url: "/about/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"

  - image_path: /assets/images/cover/install.png
    alt: "Install"
    title: "Install"
    excerpt: "Use of the software. Instructions for replicating project content."
    url: "/install/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"

  - image_path: /assets/images/cover/about.jpg
    alt: "Documentation"
    title: "Documentation"
    excerpt: "Detailed description on how the project is organized and how to contribute."
    url: "/documentation/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"
    
  - image_path: /assets/images/follow_road/follow_road.jpg
    alt: "Getting Started"
    title: "Getting Started"
    excerpt: "Solve the Follow Road Exercise using VisualCircuit."
    url: "/follow_road/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"

  - image_path: /assets/images/cover/tutorial.jpg
    alt: "Tutorials"
    title: "Tutorials"
    excerpt: "Tutorials on how to use VisualCircuit"
    url: "/tutorials/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"  
---

{% include feature_row %}

VisualCircuit is a visual editor for programming robotics applications with ease.

VisualCircuit will allow users to program robotic intelligence using a visual language application. This tool follows the divide and conquer approach in solving problems related to robotics and computer vision. Each block is considered as a separate and functional part of the system which is running independently at fast iterations. The modular design of this tool helps the user to think in terms of blocks running concurrently which can then be easily connected to each other with the help of wires which are basically used for communication between the blocks. This tool will allow the user to think more effectively, reduce the development time and experiment with more solutions in a short period of time.

The people working on the project are:

- [Jose Maria Cañas](https://gsyc.urjc.es/jmplaza/)
- [Muhammad Taha Suhail](https://github.com/AbsorbedInThought)

Commit message:

Update Website with new Getting Started Exercise (#213)
* Update website home page

* Update documentation page to give more relevant info

* Update top nav-bar

* Add developer names

* Add skeleton of basic tutorial

* Add new getting_started example

* Fix typo

* Update HomePage to reflect new getting started page

* Updates for getting started

docs/_pages/home.md, after:

---
layout: splash
permalink: /
header:
  overlay_color: "#5e616c"
  overlay_image: /assets/images/bg.jpg
  actions:
    #- label: "<i class='fas fa-download'></i> Install now"
    #  url: "/installation/"
excerpt: 
  Visual programming of robots using hardware blocks composition and Python 
feature_row:
  - image_path: /assets/images/cover/logbook.jpg
    alt: "About"
    title: "About"
    excerpt: "Information about VisualCircuit."
    url: "/about/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"

  - image_path: /assets/images/cover/install.png
    alt: "Install"
    title: "Install"
    excerpt: "Use of the software. Instructions for replicating project content."
    url: "/install/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"

  - image_path: /assets/images/cover/about.jpg
    alt: "Documentation"
    title: "Documentation"
    excerpt: "Detailed description on how the project is organized and how to contribute."
    url: "/documentation/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"
    
  - image_path: /assets/images/cover/skeleton_structure.png
    alt: "Getting Started"
    title: "Getting Started"
    excerpt: "Get started by making a simple circuit in VisualCircuit"
    url: "/getting_started/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"

  - image_path: /assets/images/follow_road/follow_road.jpg
    alt: "Follow Road"
    title: "Follow Road"
    excerpt: "Solving the Follow Road Excercise with Visual Circuit"
    url: "/follow_road/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"

  - image_path: /assets/images/cover/tutorial.jpg
    alt: "Tutorials"
    title: "Tutorials"
    excerpt: "Tutorials on how to use VisualCircuit"
    url: "/tutorials/"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
    btn_label: "Learn more"  
---

{% include feature_row %}

VisualCircuit is a visual editor for programming robotics applications with blocks and wires.

VisualCircuit is a tool that allows users to program robotic intelligence using a visual language application. It follows a divide and conquer approach where each block is a separate and functional part of the system, running independently at fast iterations. The modular design of this tool allows users to think in terms of blocks running concurrently and easily connect them to each other with wires for communication. This approach helps reduce development time and enables fast prototyping, making it a powerful tool for creating and testing complex robotic systems.

The current developers are:

- [Jose Maria Cañas](https://gsyc.urjc.es/jmplaza/)
- [Muhammad Taha Suhail](https://github.com/AbsorbedInThought)
- [Toshan Luktuke](https://github.com/toshan-luktuke)
- [Suhas Gopal](https://github.com/Suhas-G)
